---
title: PMC Chair
tags: ["pmc","chair"]
---

The PMC Chair serves as the project's voice to the board and handles
quarterly reporting. 

While typically a senior, respected community leader, the Chair is
**not** the project leader but a peer among PMC members, with the same 
voting rights and authority as other PMC members, who has accepted 
additional secretarial and spokesperson responsibilities.

The Chair must familiarize themselves with the [assigned
duties](https://www.apache.org/dev/pmc.html#chair) of the role.

{{% toc %}}

## Secretarial duties

The Chair is responsible for completing the necessary processes when
new committers and PMC members are added.

See the [process for adding new
committers](https://www.apache.org/dev/pmc.html#committer-management),
and the [process for adding new PMC
members](https://www.apache.org/dev/pmc.html#newpmcmember), for details of
these requirements.

## Reporting

The Chair [files the quarterly project report](/pmc/reporting) to the
board of directors.

## Moderating discussion

The Chair may need to moderate discussions to ensure the community
maintains appropriate conduct and avoids divisive conversations.

Since the Chair has been selected as a respected community member, they
should confidently establish community standards and enforce
expectations for appropriate behavior on official communication
channels.

## Selecting a new Chair

Projects may periodically select a new Chair.

Some projects rotate Chairs every year or two, while others maintain
the same Chair for many years. A Chair might step down due to time
constraints or to provide others with leadership opportunities.

Inform Chair candidates about the workload to ensure they have
sufficient availability and understand the role's requirements.

The outgoing Chair should mentor the incoming Chair, familiarizing them
with duties to ensure a successful transition.

## See also:

New Chairs receive [this
advice](https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/officers/advice-for-new-pmc-chairs.txt)
and should read it thoroughly. They should also review [published
policies](https://www.apache.org/dev/pmc.html#policy) for PMCs.

