---
title: PMC Responsibilities
tags: ["pmc","governance"]
---

The Project Management Committee (PMC) is responsible for the oversight
of the project, including technical decisions, ensuring that the project
is operating in accordance with ASF norms, adding new members to the
project, and voting on releases.

{{% toc %}}

## Conducting Business

The PMC is expected to conduct all of its business on the public
developers mailing list, in the full view of the community.

Every PMC also has a private@ list, which is for communication about
private matters, such as discussion of proposed committers, proposed
new PMC members, or confidential security issues. Do not use it for discussion
of features, roadmap, or other technical decisions.

The Board of Directors will occasionally send you comments or queries,
often related to your quarterly board report. Any PMC member can, and
should, respond to these. You should not wait for the Chair to respond
to these queries.

The PMC is tasked with making decisions on the direction of the project,
They can, and should, also incorporate the voice of the larger community
in these decisions. However, if a vote is taken, only the votes of the
PMC are binding on the outcome. Other community members may vote as
well, but those votes are advisory only, and not binding.

A PMC member may veto a technical decision, such as a proposed patch.
However, they must be able to back this veto up with a technical reason,
and be willing to discuss possible resolutions to their objection.

Further discussion of voting may be found on the [Foundation
website](https://www.apache.org/foundation/voting.html).

## Protecting your brand

Apache PMCs are directly responsible for promoting and protecting their
project's brand and trademarks while following Apache Trademark
policies. This is discussed in detail on the [trademarks
site](https://apache.org/foundation/marks/responsibility).

## Making a release

The process for releasing a official Apache software artifact may be
found on the [Infra
website](https://infra.apache.org/release-publishing.html). As a PMC
member, you are expected to read and understand that process.

When you vote on a release, it should be an indication that you have
actually tested that release. In your vote email, rather than merely
voting +1 or -1, also indicate what you tested, and on what
platform(s).

## Ensuring Project Health

The PMC is tasked individually and collectively with ensuring that the
project is behaving according to ASF policies and norms. In this
responsibility, PMC members act as individuals, not as representatives
of their employer, or other third-party interests. The reputation of the
project, and the ASF in general, is delegated to PMC members in this
respect.

Projects should [operate in a vendor neutral fashion](https://community.apache.org/projectIndependence.html). That is to say, any
project participant has an equal voice, unrelated to the employer or
lack thereof. Evidence that a project is favoring one company or
organization over another is a serious offense. For example, if members
of a particular organization are favored over another, for either
addition to the committer roll, the PMC, or for acceptance of their
patches, this is an indication that the employer is exerting undue
influence over the direction of the project.

The PMC is also expected to set the tone for conduct and interactions in
the project. They can, and should, call out behavior that is in conflict
with ASF norms, such as bullying, racist or sexist discussions, or other
abusive behavior.  PMCs may adopt a specific Code of Conduct, or simply 
follow the [ASF's general Code of Conduct](https://apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct).

## Adding Community Members

The PMC is also tasked with the sustainability of the project. An
important part of this is regularly [adding new
committers](/pmc/adding-committers.html) and [new PMC
members](/pmc/adding-pmc-members.html). This is not the sole role of the
chair. Rather, every PMC member can, and should, regularly look at who
is participating in the project, and evaluate whether they should be
invited to the next [rung of the contributor
ladder](/contributor-ladder.html).
